So our mission here was to implement two
grids so this was two-column grid just
because it's small, which also if
you had a listing of images or
something along those lines
you could theoretically use
a grid like that as well you could
also directly have a 12 column grid.
And they just span more columns as well
either one is fine this just happens to be
relatively small canvas so that felt
appropriate if you wanted to go rogue and
do 12 columns, more power to you.
You can go ahead and like I said before,
add in we don't want the default grid we
want this case it is
going to be two columns,
with a 36-pixel margin and
16-pixel gutters.
That's not a real system.
And then here we wanted to have
one column in both directions.
And we can talk about,
why we might want to do that?
But you might have noticed why you might
want to do it upon implementing it too.
So, we can go ahead and
we can add in one column and
we'll give it with this case,
20-pixel margins.
And [SOUND] we can go ahead and
add a second one.
And we'll change that to rows
we'll say one row with 20.
And you can kind of see why you
might use this as basically,
the equivalent of padding and CSS, right?
If we wanted to have the ability to
snap to what we would normally have as
the right padding,
we'll have to be like, okay,
cool, I'm just gonna like,
put this in the right corner and
I'm gonna add 20 to the X and
the Y over and over and over again.
Now we can be like, no,
I wanna have some nice padding,
I could snap stuff on there super easily,
and we have that in place as well.
If you didn't have, let's say
hypothetically you just had the columns,
right, you might increase it a little bit,
but that kinda gives you your padding on
a mobile scrolling view as well,
right, and so
you can use a one-column grid to simulate
padding and CSS in your Figma design.
Where some of the magic happens though,
is combining constraints and layout grids.
So we saw before with constraints So
we can say like, stay in the middle, or
snap to both sides and expand a contract
that worked great for, did I implement it?
Our menu bar, right?
But, theoretically,
if we had stuff in the middle of the page,
we could try to center it, but they stay
the same size and just kinda sit there.
I mean, we can do it watch.
I'll grab, this is my son's artwork.
Grab the right stuff.
Cool, grab that, and it's not transparent,
that's just the layout grid.
I could theoretically say stay to the
left, stay to the right, and they'd kind
of grow and expand but it wouldn't really
do what I wanted, I could say center.
All these are gonna be sub-par
Implementations, actually,
this is working cuz layout grid
is in place basically with
the layout grid the constraints
will go to the column or
the row that it's in, right,
and can stay with that.
So it's actually staying at
the center of that column, but
what I might choose to do is kind
of stick it right there in there.
And we'll say in this case,
left and right.
Let's grab another one and
do the same thing.
Make a copy this time.
And we'll say, left and right
And now you'll see that
they kinda grow and
contract like if they had with 100 inside
of like two sections or divs in CSS.
They kind of behave the way that
you think that they should and
they don't have a scale property on the up
and down so they keep their height.
Basically behaving the way that
they would in the browser and
you basically get it for free if you use
layout grids and constraints together,
that I will also work kind of in a more
like CSS Grid kind of format right so
let's pull this up a little bit [SOUND].
And we can say let's put this one in here,
and I can snap it in there and
have it grow to the right size
grab another one real quick.
We can pop it in there as well.
Okay, now we actually want it to scale.
We want both them to kind of
scale in both directions.
So select them both.
And we'll say left and
right, top and bottom.
And now theoretically.
They will actually grow and shrink
again like they would in the browser.
The other cool thing that you can do with
frames that we didn't talk about before
is, it is not unlikely
that you're developing for
both especially doing for
mobile both landscape and portrait, right?
And so in a frame if you ever need to
change the device you can actually just
hit this drop down, but the other thing
that you can do is swap it between,
I've broken this frame,
let's make it an iPad Pro11.
And you can see it's like snapping to
the right sizes in each case, right?
So to your point before I maybe can't make
an app where that will always just take up
the right space and anything I drop it in
but I could theoretically set up one view
and then duplicate the frame, make one an
iPad mini, make one Safari on a desktop,
make one an iPhone, and
then adjust accordingly for each one.
And you can see that even as I switch
to portrait I might adjust the rows in
this case.
I might have a set of portrait rows and
so on and so forth.
But generally speaking,
I can kind of switch back and
forth, even if it could be cool.
Let's see real quick.
One of the things we saw before is we
can make save styles out of a grid.
So let's actually make one I'll call
it live coding, so don't get confused.
Live coding, port tripped and sweet and
then we're going to duplicate this,
Over here and let's say that for
landscape we want to change
this grid a little bit so we'll go
ahead and will detach this style and
we're gonna say that maybe in portrait
mode just do two columns, right?
And so what we can do is we can flip this,
gotta reset those constraints real quick,
Gotta grab the right stuff and we'll set
it to those pieces, so the constraints
are still there I just had to snap and
show the right part of the grid.
And then we'll take this frame and
you can see that now I
can get in a given one
because I can make this also
a live coding landscape, right?
So now as I make more frames, I can apply
the correct grid just by picking the grids
I've decided that I want.
And then theoretically,
as I'm copying these frames through,
I can just apply the right grids and
see all the different views to make sure
everything behaves the way
that I want it to.
Everything's looking pretty good.
>> Is there a way to tell Figma to use
different grids depending on portrait or
landscape?
>> No, not presently, right?
There's a whole bunch of new
features coming all the time.
One of the things that you can't do yet
that I wish, if I have a feature request,
if anyone from Figma is watching,
is there's no sense of
effectively cascading right?
And so I would love to set
properties on a frame and
have the things in there kinda
be able to like inherit, or
at least be able to tell
the properties of its parents.
So for instance, yeah,
if portrait use this grid,
if landscape use the other one,
or if dark mode and
I drag in a bunch of things use the dark
mode version of that component.
When we get into components later,
there are a bunch of things where I wish
that like right now each layer is kind of,
they know about the constraints, but
l they don't really know about a lot of
the other properties of the frame
that kind of surrounds it, right?
They effectively like the metaphor that
you could abuse Is the idea of these
are not props that the parent react
component passes into the child react
component, right?
So right now you can't.
That said, looking at the number
of features that have changed
in the last year, I wouldn't be shocked
if one day that feature shelter but
at the time of this recording you can't.